# Crypto Web Project
Crypto Web Project is a practice web development project built with Django framework focused on applying key backend skills such as integrating external APIs, interacting with a database, and implementing caching mechanisms.
The application tracks cryptocurrency prices, saves them into a cache for fast access, and delivers real-time updates to the frontend. It also includes a portfolio management feature, where users can create and manage their personal cryptocurrency portfolios, with key performance metrics (such as Sharpe Ratio, Volatility, and Max Drawdown) automatically calculated and displayed through interactive charts and tables.

---

## Technologies

The project is built using a modern stack for both frontend and backend development:

- **HTML5**: Structure of web pages (`home.html`, `admin_panel.html`, `portfolio.html`, `auth.html`).
- **CSS3**: Styling of pages via separate files (`common.css`, `home.css`, `portfolio.css`, `auth.css`) with responsive design using media queries.
- **JavaScript**: Dynamic logic and interactivity (`homeScript.js`, `portfolioScript.js`) with asynchronous programming (`async/await`).
- **Bootstrap 5.3.3**: Framework for responsive design and pre-built components (navigation, tables, modals).
- **Chart.js**: Library for creating interactive charts (pie chart for asset allocation, line chart for portfolio growth).
- **Django**: Backend framework that can be used for request handling, data management, and database integration.
- **Redis**: In-memory database for caching and fast data access.
- **PostgreSQL**: Relational database for storing structured data about the portfolio, users, etc.

---

## Setup Instructions

To run the project locally, follow these steps:

1. **Clone the repository**  
   Clone this repository to your local machine and ensure you have all required files
   

3. **Create .env file**

   To configure the project, you will need to create a .env file in the root directory of the project. This file will contain important environment variables required by the project, such as database credentials and API keys.
   - In your project folder, create a new file and name it .env (make sure it doesn't have any extension like .txt).
   - Open the .env file and add the following configuration (replace the placeholders with your actual values):
```env
   #Django authomatically created secret key
   SECRET_KEY=<your_django_secret_key>

   #DB settings
   DB_NAME=crypto_db
   DB_USER=postgres
   DB_PASSWORD=<your_postgres_password>
   DB_HOST=db
   DB_PORT=5432

   #Keys for recaptcha
   RECAPTCHA_PUBLIC_KEY=<your_recaptcha_public_key>
   RECAPTCHA_PRIVATE_KEY=<your_recaptcha_private_key>

   #Google OAuth2 keys
   GOOGLE_OAUTH2_CLIENT_ID=<your_google_oauth_client_id>
   GOOGLE_OAUTH2_CLIENT_SECRET=<your_google_oauth_client_secret>
```
-   
   - Django Secret Key: Can generated by running the following command in Python:
```bash
   import secrets
   print(secrets.token_urlsafe())
```
-
  - reCAPTCHA Keys: The RECAPTCHA_PUBLIC_KEY and RECAPTCHA_PRIVATE_KEY are neccesary. You can get these keys by registering your website on Google reCAPTCHA.

  - Google OAuth2 Credentials: OAuth2 credentials are needed to be configured in the Google Developer Console. After creating your OAuth2 client, get your CLIENT_ID and CLIENT_SECRET.

3. **Install Docker Desktop**  
   If not already installed, download and install [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/) for your operating system.

4. **Open the project in an IDE**  
   Open the project folder in Visual Studio, VS Code, PyCharm, or your preferred IDE.

5. **Build and start the containers**  
   In the terminal, navigate to the project directory and run the following command to build and start the Docker containers:  
```bash
   docker-compose up --build
```

6. **Access the application**  
Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:8000` to view the running application.

---

## Conclusion

Crypto Web Project demonstrates practical experience in full-stack web development and real-time data processing.
It is designed with scalability in mind, ready for adding aditional functions and production-level deployment.
